My guest today is Dan Sunheim, the
founder and CIO of D1 Capital Partners.
Anyone that loves investing in markets
has surely heard Dan's name [music]
before. I think you'll very quickly
realize that he is one of the most
passionate investors operating in the
world today. that D1 operates across
markets, both across sectors and public
markets, and having invested in some of
the most valuable and important private
markets companies like SpaceX, OpenAI,
and Anthropic is just a testament to how
universal Dan's curiosity is about
companies and markets. I find Dan to be
one of the quickest, smartest thinkers
[music] about just about any company.
When we recorded this conversation in
his office in Miami, I spent the next
hour talking to him about name after
name after name. And I could not believe
the deep clarity and understanding that
he had about a small private markets
company, then a big public markets
company in technology, then another
public company that was an industrial.
He could move all over the map. And it's
incredibly clear that he spends all of
his waking hours studying markets and
studying companies. The takeaway for me
from this conversation is how good you
can be when you are as passionate about
what you do as Dan is about investing.
Please enjoy this great and wide-ranging
conversation on all things markets with
Dan Simon.
I want to spend a bunch of time talking
about public versus [music] private. You
do both. You started investing in
privates more than 10 years ago. You
were kind of one of the pioneers of
this. You've got some amazing huge
private positions, SpaceX, SpaceX, and
lots of others. draw the contrast today
in 2026 of the difference in how the two
markets feel. Curious a lot of things
here like how you think about valuation
differences, what one tells you about
the other, you know, the business of
privates versus a public equity hedge
fund. Like I want to go into kind of all
of it, but but at a high level, what
what is your feeling on the difference
between the two markets?
>> It changes over time. Uh so like it
depends where you are in a cycle. Um I'd
say right now I think that there's a lot
of interesting opportunities in late
stage privates. It's a moment in time.
There are some, you know, companies that
are uh, you know, you've never seen
these some of the largest companies in
the world by market cap are private
right now. Um, and not only are they
large and private, they are innovating
in a way that's going to change the
world, right? So, this this moment is
particularly interesting. I think that
in general, private markets are less
competitive. There's obviously the core
skill set of analyzing businesses is uh
the majority of what creates value. Um
but there's other aspects of it too like
um often times there's no disagreement
among private investors that a certain
company is is excellent. Um but that
company has to want you to be an
investor in the company. So it's
competitive uh from the standpoint of
like being able to um you know create a
situation where you can invest in the
best companies. But in terms of like
just pure uh how difficult is it to um
generate returns by assessing
companies? Uh I'd say the public markets
are the most competitive in the world.
Even though I told you even though they
are less efficient than they were
before, it's still you have you know um
more people in more places looking at
information in companies. uh where in
the private side just by definition you
um you have fewer people looking at
every uh situation and uh less capital.
One difference that equalizes a bit is
that you don't have this dynamic on the
private side of people doing things that
are economically irrational because
they're focused in the short term or
they're just their business model is you
know not consistent with investing based
on long-term intrinsic value where you
have in the public markets. in the
private market. Um, every time we're
looking at a business, everybody's doing
the same thing. You know, we could talk
to other firms that, uh, are investing
in the same company. Their research, you
know, may be different than ours, but it
is all trying to get at the same uh, you
know, and same answer. That's very
different than the public market. So,
there's fewer people competing, but
they're all doing the same thing.
Whereas the public markets, there's tons
of people competing, but they're all
playing a different sport. M
>> if you think about the the key companies
in your private portfolio today,
Anthropic, OpenAI, companies like
SpaceX, Ramp, etc. What does that group
teach you? Like what do you think you
see coming that maybe the public markets
don't fully appreciate yet that don't
have that same exposure to those these
great private businesses?
>> As long as I've been doing private and
public investing, at some points in
time, there is synergy. Um but I'd say
uh if you go back to when we founded the
firm 25% of the time we looked at a
private company there was some synergy
with what we were doing the public side
now um because of AI and because of uh
there's so much innovation happening in
the private markets the synergies are
just greater than I've ever seen before
in that um I think if you're going to
take a view on uh public companies that
are deeply impacted by AI which
eventually will be almost every public
you should have an opinion on
where is the technology now, where is
the technology going, um what are the
implications of it and um investing in
those companies I think gives you that
perspective uh in a way that um I've
never seen greater synergy.
>> When you first were considering your
initial investments in Open Anthropic,
did you pattern match their businesses
or their business models on anything
that you had seen historically? Did they
remind you of anything?
>> They were very different in that uh when
we first invested in OpenAI um I
wouldn't say it was contrarian at all.
Uh to some extent we invested originally
at the $125 billion round. So I don't
think people were entirely sold on LLMs
as a business model, but if you want to
invest in LLM as a business model,
OpenAI was kind of the, you know, was
the one. Whether you invest in LLMs or
didn't invest in LLM was debated quite a
bit. I mean I think there was a lot of
you know um uncertainty about the
ultimate business model of these
companies. So that was what we had to
figure out. Anthropic was a different
situation. We first invested in
Anthropic. A number of people uh that I
spoke to who I think are very smart um
drew the analogy of Uber versus Lyft or
you know why are you going to invest in
in the in the second player? In most
industries uh investing in the second
player is not uh the path to glory. The
way I viewed it was um it was incredibly
difficult to at that stage to say like
who was going to be first and who was
going to be second. Um and uh the
pattern recognition to answer your
question for me uh on anthropic was just
reading Daario's essays and listening to
him on podcasts. When I look back at my
career and look back at the companies we
missed like Amazon uh in the early days
uh and I think like what could I have
seen um if you look at their income
statement you would just see a sea of
red you wouldn't have seen anything
>> the only telltale sign was like reading
Jeff Bezos's 1997
97 shareholder letter which was like
>> just the clarity of thought uh and um
you know his understanding of what uh he
wanted to achieve and how to create
value for shareholders
>> was greater than you know almost any
public CEO I dealt with. Uh and if I had
read that and almost ignored everything
else uh it would have been uh a really
important sign uh and very profitable.
Dario struck me
>> like that. uh it was like you know he um
it wasn't that the models at that point
were uh so differentiated um I think
they were considered to be one of
probably maybe at that point five six
seven players that could ultimately be
important um there was still a lot of
debate around LLM as a business model
but um I felt like he was uh incredibly
skilled um and extremely focused. I
place a lot of weight, rightly or
wrongly, on clarity of thought and the
ability to communicate uh as a CEO like
what you want to achieve and how you're
going to achieve it. And uh especially
in written form because taking the time
to write something down, you actually
really have to uh
go through, you know, everything you
plan to do and express it uh in a in a
way that makes sense to everybody else.
Um and Dario just did that better than
almost any CEO I've seen since Bezos. As
your business scales up, everything gets
more complex, especially your compliance
and security needs. With so many tools
offering band-aids and patches, it's
unfortunately far too easy for something
to slip through the cracks. Fortunately,
Vanta is a powerful tool designed to
simplify and automate your security work
and deliver a single source of truth for
compliance and risk. There's a reason
that Ramp, Cursor, and Snowflake all use
Vanta. It frees them to focus on
building amazing differentiated
products, knowing that compliance and
security are under control. Learn more
at vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tax
stack is for asset managers. And
seemingly every new tool and data source
makes the problem even worse. Adding
more complexity, more headcount, and
more risk. Ridgeline offers a better way
forward. One unified platform that
automates away all that complexity
across portfolio accounting,
reconciliation, reporting, trading,
compliance, and more. All at scale.
Ridgeline is revolutionizing investment
management, helping ambitious firms
scale faster, operate smarter, and stay
ahead of the curve. See what Ridgeline
can unlock for your firm. schedule a
demo at ridgelineapps.com.
>> How would you frame the debate today
about LLMs as a business model now that
we know a bit more?
>> Back then it was like are these
businesses going to ever generate an
economic return? Like uh I think one
analogy was um AI will be huge um so is
air travel. Uh airlines were not a good
business, right? there's nothing
differentiating about one airline from
the other and so therefore the you know
just returns go down to the cost of
capital. Obviously we took a different
view uh but that was like a 6535
7030 degree of confidence in that uh at
that point. Um it was more about like
the skew if things played out like we
thought and the business models were
actually moted uh would be huge. I think
at this point we're in a different place
in terms of the debate that's important.
If you want to look through a positive
lens, businesses have taken slightly
different lanes uh and um have excelled
at different things within AI. Um so
OpenAI has been great at consumer and
has had good traction enterprise.
Anthropic has been incredibly successful
at coding. There was a thesis when we
first invested that like APIs um or the
business of having other software
companies plug into your other
developers plug into your model would be
commoditized because they could just one
day use your model, one day use it just
be a race to the bottom. I think that
debate is uh you know more or or less uh
irrelevant uh because you've just seen
with clog code and even open API
business like these are durable
businesses and yes can you switch you
can the same way you could switch AWS or
Azure um but it's not worth it for a lot
of businesses to do it and uh there's
sufficient differentiation among the
models if you look at the underlying
margins of these companies they are not
uh the margins that you see in a
commoditized industry. Uh you know the
gross margins are quite high. The
competitive landscape I think is not
heavily debated. Um at this point you
probably have four or five LLMs that
will be relevant in the long term. Uh I
don't see that changing. Um not that
there's not sufficient talent out there.
Uh it's just that the capital required
to get into this business is too great
and these companies are too big at this
point. And then you kind of get like the
snowball of you know uh more capital you
have the more compute you get better
researchers I think it' be very
difficult so the competitive landscape
is not really in question I don't think
anyone would say that these business
models are commoditized I think the real
debate is these are extremely capital
intensive businesses uh you know capital
intensive uh to a degree that we've
never seen before in the history of
business and the question is you're
spending a ton of capital and the
ultimate return on that capital is
unknown. own. So it's not like a normal
business who builds a factory and kind
of knows what they're going to sell. you
are um spending tons of capital to train
a model and the question is
you know do the scaling laws um work
such that the returns on that capital
continue to be attractive which means
that you will be able to attract more
capital uh and build better models or
are you going to get to a point where uh
everyone looks back and says we raised
too much money we spent too much
training models we didn't get the
economic return or I think equally
likely if not more likely people would
say um ultimately you will get the
economic return but uh it just happened
slower than you would have thought like
enterprise adoption just didn't take off
as quickly as you thought and therefore
the problem is like when you are this
capital intensive as a business it
introduces financial leverage and
operating leverage to a degree you don't
see in normal businesses so you don't
have the luxury of you know uh
2 or 3 years of things going slower than
you otherwise you know uh would expect
the scaling laws the returns on capital
and uh the speed at which these tools
and AI is adopted throughout the economy
are the questions
>> is there anything that like Netflix or
something like that could teach us where
that's another business that comes to
mind where there's crazy amount of
capital that was spent to build an asset
and then it gets you know advertised
over a bigger and bigger user base and
that's turned to be a great stock and
one that I know you've owned a lot.
>> Yeah.
>> Is there any analogy between those two
that's interesting to you?
>> When I was speaking to the the
executives at the LLMs, like the way I
framed this, I said, "Look," I said, "I
think your business is some kind of
combination between um Netflix and
Spotify." Netflix in that um unlike
other tech companies, you are spending a
ton of money upfront uh to train these
models. Once these models are trained,
you go sell them at extremely high
incremental margins. You don't know what
the revenues are going to be from that
fixed asset that you've built. Um, but
to the extent that you've built that
asset, you want to sell it as much as
possible. Um, so that you can get the
cash flows to build the next model and
so on and so forth. Um that's very
similar to Netflix in that like they
invested in content and when you're an
early mover in that this kind of fixed
asset business uh you invest heavily you
get the capital to invest heavily you
get the revenues uh you spread it out
over increasing number of people uh you
invest more in that fixed asset and that
just kind of has a flywheel effect of
generating more revenue more content
more revenue more content and eventually
you get to the point where it's almost
impossible to compete because
>> it's just a first pair of advantages,
right? Yeah. If you were to say like
what is an important difference of
Netflix versus these models is Netflix's
content was differentiated. the models
are more similar than they are different
in that like you know at any given time
uh open AAI may have a better model
anthropic may have a better model but a
lot of the expertise and innovation gets
disseminated pretty quickly so these
models are not terribly different um and
that's where the Spotify analogy comes
in in that um I think if you're Google
or you are open AI the uh
differentiating factor will not
necessarily be that Google gives you
better answer like if we were just like
to you know uh query Gemini or chat GBT
on something uh I I don't think it's the
case that we would say definitively one
will give you a better answer over time
however the personalization matters and
the first mover advantage is like the
more that these models know about you uh
how you live your life your health uh
all the things are important to you um
you build up this history with and it
becomes very sticky the Music on Spotify
is no different than Apple Music or
Amazon Music, right? It's theoretically
it's a pure commodity. What makes
Spotify uh have pricing power? What
makes it differentiated? Why would
people, you know, be incredibly upset if
you said like you had to, you know, not
use Spotify anymore? It's because it's
personalized. It's because they've uh
they've tailored the service to take a
um product which is a commodity and
personalize it to the point where you're
willing to pay a premium for that
commodity. If you were giving advice to
the executives at these companies and
telling them what to lean into and what
to look out for over the next five
years, I'm curious what you would say
because the scaling laws are so
interesting in the sense that like the
models keep getting unbelievably better
and that probably means the revenue
available is like who who knows how big
it could be. It could be the whole
world. But the cost keeps going up by
like orders of magnitude. You know, the
Colossus 2 data center is like this
unfathomably big thing. It's like two
gigawatts of power. or it's crazy. What
advice would you give them based on
everything you've learned about, you
know, these big massive businesses?
>> The really interesting thing uh and
challenging aspect of these businesses,
the LLMs, is that the the models they
are building uh now and especially in
the future can be applied to almost any
aspect of the economy. You can take
these models and you can uh make
consumers lives more efficient by you
know having them be personal have
personal assistants. You could solve
physics problems. You could uh help with
drug discovery. You could make
enterprises more efficient. The the TAM
is certainly not the problem. Uh focus
is going to be uh you know a question
mark. you know, on the one hand, if you
the more and markets you go after with a
fixed asset, the better, right? Because
you're just getting you're spreading
that cost over more uh and markets and
having more revenue, which then can be
reinvested. I think the flip side of
that is that I rarely have seen uh any
company succeed trying to do go after
multiple end markets at the same time.
Um you know, it's usually you have an a
team, that a team is focused on one
thing. uh your culture as a company is
oriented towards uh either consumer or
enterprise. Uh they have just different
uh even even Amazon which you you'd say
is like the example of a consumer
company that got into enterprise. They
got into it like seven years later after
uh even after they went public. So
trying to do everything at once is
tempting because if you're successful
you're effectively just advertising that
fixed asset over more revenue streams.
um at the same time uh you risk uh not
being uh the best at any one thing. So
that is the trade-off and I think that
um
uh I'm not sure we have the final
answer. Um I think it you know right now
the market has gone through periods
where they thought you know anthropic
was and open was Uber and you know now
uh up until recently the sentiment on
open AI was was more negative. I I think
OpenAI is taking the strategy of
let's do everything. Let's, you know,
we're going to go after Apple hardware.
We're going to go after robotics. We're
after enterprise consumer uh science.
They've been very successful in a lot of
ways, but that's hard. I'm sure there
are companies I'm not thinking of, but I
can't think of many examples where
that's been successful. I understand the
temptation to do it. Uh and obviously
the the difference versus history is
that the smartest people in the world
are all going to work at these
companies. So if anyone's going to pull
it off, they will. Anthrop took a
different approach and just said we are
going to focus on enterprise. They tried
consumer early on but it became clear
they didn't have traction. So then they
just went all in enterprise and um you
know they've had a lot of success with
coding in enterprise and um because
they've now taken a marketleading
position uh generally sentiment is that
anthropic is winning and you know they
are like uh kind of now the Uber if you
want to use that analogy. I think this
is going to go back and forth over time
and people like most things to watch.
Yeah, people probably get carried away
in both directions, but I think those
are the biggest
>> differences. I would probably error on
the side of focus, but I do understand
the economic rationale for trying to do
as many things as once. The only thing I
early on when we invested in OpenAI,
this is probably a year and a half ago,
I said to them, I'm like, "You uh have
to do ads." I said like, "Yeah, you have
to do ads." Um, I understand. I've seen
it so many times people in Silicon
Valley um the idea of ads is like
they're allergic to that. I had this
amazing pure technology product and you
want me to like paint it
>> paint it with ads and like you see
Anthropic Super Bowl commercial. That
being said, even the companies that were
the most adamant about never getting
into ads, like Netflix, if you go back
and just listen to what Netflix was
saying even 15 years ago, it was like,
you know, um getting into ads, even Reed
would have been like, you are out of
your mind. We would never do that.
>> Ultimately, they did it. And to me, it's
like if you're going to do it
ultimately, uh one, you can't really
compete against companies that are using
ads if you're not. Very hard. if you're
ultimately going to do it, you might as
well start earlier because you have to
build a culture around, you know, um it
just takes time. I I don't think it's a
big deal that opening I waited. Um but
uh I was probably,
you know, rightly or wrongly, I was
pushing for ads sooner than they've
chosen to do it. I think now they're
probably going to get it right.
>> I'm so curious what you think is going
to happen to the hyperscalers now. I saw
this news report the other day that uh
Enthropic is considering securing 10
gigawatts now of their own power which
just makes me think okay they're gonna
have the power like why don't they just
the scale is going to be so big why
don't they just create their own clouds
effectively the hardware might be
different more focused on inference etc
does that jeopardize what these business
models which I think people have thought
of as pretty damn good at at the
hyperscalers do you think the future is
different as a result of AI
>> I do I mean I we I've kind of thought
this for probably about a year now and I
wouldn't say I um we're not there's
nothing conclusive I'd say but I am I
more confident in it. I am more
confident in uh the thesis that the
hyperscalers are a worse business model
going forward. Now it's interesting
because usually when you say something
is a worse business model uh you're
implying that growth is going to slow,
margins are going to contract. Um I
actually think you're going to see the
opposite. I think that you know AWS and
Azure I maybe Azure doesn't accelerate
certainly uh GCP
>> I think these businesses are going to
accelerate for a while just because they
are um you know their customer bases
anthropic openi are growing at enormous
pace and as they get to be a bigger part
of the business the growth accelerate
the problem is is that you went from a
dynamic where uh AWS Azure um to some
extent GCP um their customer base was
like every corporation in the world and
therefore um uh they had fragmentation
and they had the benefits massive
economies of scale that no single
company could get. Um and it was a good
very good business. Um the problem going
forward is that I think that uh
economically it's highly unlikely that a
that LLMs are not very concentrated in
the hands of like four or five
companies. those companies right now um
you know they are obviously as we
discussed they're investing a ton uh and
they are you know cash flow negative and
therefore they're looking for compute
anywhere they can get it but if we're
correct and if anyone who owns these
companies is correct at some point in
the next 5 to 10 years they will be
generating enormous amounts of free cash
flow when that happens I think that uh
they are likely to insource the compute
every year AI is going to be a bigger
percentage of the workloads
uh at any hyperscaler. And so if you
roll out like 10 years from now, I think
that the majority of the workloads will
probably be uh AI uh the LLMs will
probably be providing a lot of a lot of
those workloads and I think that it will
make economic sense to take it in house.
Yeah.
>> Right now I think that they look at the
hyperscalers as um you know more of a
financing mechanism. These are well-
capitalized companies with big balance
sheets. But I don't think these
companies are better than them at uh
building u data centers. Like building
CPU clusters is different than building
GPU clusters. Running inference on GPUs
is very different than um workloads on
CPUs. And I think these the LLMs are
actually better at inference than the
hyperscalers. Uh and then you have this
whole dynamic of neoclouds. Um and um
yeah, I think that the initial view from
most public investors was that this was
like pure overflow capacity.
There weren't enough GPUs and you know
these things would be dead as soon as
Microsoft got their Yeah, I certainly
would not make the case that they are
fantastic businesses, but I don't think
they're going away uh like people
thought because I think they're better
at running GPU clusters than the
traditional hyperscalers are. uh and I
think there's a lot of interest uh from
Nvidia and uh other chip companies to
make sure that their the customer base
is diversified. Nvidia is a very big
balance sheet and they want to keep
these players in business. So um over
the next 10 years I think the b these
hyperscalers AWS Azure will grow fast. I
think the margins my guess is will be
challenged both because the businesses
are getting a lot more capital intensive
because AI is capital intensive uh more
capital intensive than traditional
workloads and also the customer base is
getting more concentrated. Meta is not a
hyperscaler but they insourced all their
compute because why would they pay I
mean they're just too big to to use
somebody on the outside. If you think
about the last couple of years, probably
the best thing you could have done is
just belong the AI buildout in all its
various forms. And maybe that will
remain true going forward. But it seems
like the market a little bit is is
starting to think now ahead to the other
implications of AI. Software, you know,
we're talking like the week after
software got absolutely decimated in the
market and everyone thinks, you know,
because of cloud code and the amazing
experiences that they're having with
cloud code, like software businesses are
just screwed. I'm curious how you're
starting to think now beyond just the AI
built. Okay. It seems like AI AI is a
thing like it's going to it's going to
be here now. The rest of the world has
to start to absorb this technology. How
are you thinking through that? Maybe I'm
I'm super curious what you think about
the software, you know, selloff, but
even more broadly like the real economy
now has to start to swallow this new
technology. I'm so curious how you think
that's going to happen.
>> It is incredibly difficult uh to to know
and I don't think that's because I don't
have perfect information. I think it's
just these models are uh improving at a
rate which is uh exponential and um
understanding how that makes its way
into the real economy and the
implications is uh is difficult. I think
that you probably want to use a few
frameworks. It really comes down to like
which companies do you think will have a
moat in most circumstances. It's fairly
straightforward to identify modes that
are protected from digital LLMs like you
know just the proliferation of digital
intelligence. Once you get into robotics
and other areas you start to have to
question
the moes around some other traditional
industrial companies and uh you know
also just like the moes of globally. How
do countries that were arbitizing labor
do relative to you know uh developed
economy? So there's I think there's
there's going to be phases of this. The
first phase is um with software and uh
and that's really cuz like cloud code
entered the zeitgeist and it's like all
of a sudden uh people receive cloud code
and all of a sudden they just see on
Twitter that people are saying like oh I
you know I created a CRM system in like
in a day and I was like oh my god like
you know this this isn't good. that's
kind of where people are now. We wrote
in our letter at the end of the year, I
said like look, the buildout is still
going to be a thing in terms of like,
you know, places to invest in the public
markets, but it's increasingly going to
become which companies are affected and
it's going to become there haven't been
any shorts in AI. There's been there was
like basically no shorts prior to uh
2026 really. Like if you want to just
say like I'm going to short something
because of AI, you didn't make a lot of
money doing that. In our letter, I said
like there are going to be a lot of
shorts, some longs um uh because of AI
and um software is the first one. The
market tends to swing to extremes. My my
guess is that software
will have to evolve. We'll probably be a
worse business model going forward. Um
but I think the same way that like
Walmart evolved uh with e-commerce
uh and yes was that um would they have
all us equal prefer that e-commerce
never happened probably at least at the
beginning um it required enormous amount
of investment their margins took a hit
they had new competitors I think that'll
be the case with software too where
companies that have really great
distribution and great business models
and are systems of record for companies
you know one of the things I is like I
asked the LLMs I said are you designing
your own ERP system
>> and they said no we're buying a new ERP
system from this company
>> teller if they're not if they're not
[laughter]
at least you're protected at least for
for a few years if they're not doing it
yet um so I think systems of record are
going to be difficult to displace I
think companies while you know it's neat
to create software for uh small
productivity enhancements if you really
want to run your entire business on
something like an ERP system or a CRM
system. I think it's going to be quite a
while before people are just, you know,
going to be um, you know, vibe coding uh
ERP system. But I don't think that you
can just sit back as a software company
and say, you know, we're a system of
record. We'll be fine. You're going to
have to integrate AI and find ways the
same way Walmart uh, you know,
integrated e-commerce into their
business model. And it was painful for a
long time and probably in the other side
of it. But this is like I'd say fairly
low conviction because everything that
everything about AI's impact on the
economy is inherently
uh low conviction. I think everyone is
likely underestimating how much these
models are going to improve. And to
really think about what's going to
happen, you have to almost not think
like an investor. You have to think like
somebody who's, you know, into science
fiction.
>> Can you imagine a version of the story
where this is all just overblown? Like
is is there any coherent potential
future where 5 years from now we're just
like actually these things weren't that
big of a deal and or they were much less
of a big deal than we thought they were
going to be sitting here today. The only
way that would be the case is um and
even this I think would would that that
argument wouldn't hold would be if
scaling laws just totally stopped out
>> like
>> but even if scaling laws stopped um even
if these models got no better I think
you probably have 3 years of just people
learning how to incorporate um AI into
their daily life or their companies.
Certainly it wouldn't be good for the
businesses if scaling laws stopped. I
still think you'd have pretty profound
changes within the economy. Um, and you
know, betting that scaling laws are
going to stop is like a really low
probability assumption. I mean, there's
just nothing to suggest that's the case.
In fact, everything suggests the
opposite. Um, and I think it's difficult
to really get your arms around what that
means, right? cuz we went from like this
is like an interesting like chatbot
that's like Google to like oh my god
like you know these are going to be
solving problems that humans can't do.
We're already almost there.
>> I have a 12-year-old son who's
interested in investing. I think your
son's interested in investing. We've
talked about before as well. What do you
tell him about the future of this
profession given these tools? Like
surely it applies to us too and you know
we may be smart now but
>> Elon Musk says like you know I I think a
line he's used is it's better to go
through life being an optimist and be
proved wrong than a pessimist and be
proved right. So like to be young and to
be interested in something and be
dissuaded because
>> you're just obserfeating
mindset. It is likely that at some point
in the future
everything that we do is uh you know
arbitrageed away by AI for sure. I mean
I think that that would be naive of me
to say no. Um
>> do I think that's happening anytime
the next couple years? I don't. What do
you tell someone to to focus on? Like
you know first of all people are not
going to unless someone is really
interested in something they're not
going to be good at it. So, you know, it
might be the case that like being a
plumber or being electrician is like the
most, you know, motive job in the world,
but if you don't want to be plumber
electrician, it doesn't help very much.
So, it's hard to tell your kids like,
you know, don't do this or don't do that
because uh it's going to be irrelevant.
Um I saw a podcast recently with a with
a Google uh researcher who left and he
said like, "Oh, I don't even tell my
daughter to study. It's just like go out
and
>> have a good time." I think that's like a
very
>> destructive like way of going through
life. You should go through life
thinking that you want to achieve things
and that you're interested in things and
you're curious and the same way as if
this doesn't exist. And if it turns out
that whatever job you envision having no
longer exists, then you'll have to
adjust.
>> Talked with John and um and Daniel about
the GameStop, you know, the GameStop
story. We can touch on it here, too. I'm
curious though what you most learned
about yourself during that period of
time when uh lore has it that you know
in fe I guess it was February of 21 so
at January was the was GameStop that you
went to your team and basically said
look the way we're going to calculate
your comp this year is not going to
include January like that was just a
completely insane period of time and so
you took certain steps to like create
stability in the business or whatever
but in such a stressful period of
returns I'm just curious what Yeah. What
you learned about yourself or what it
was like emotionally to go through that
time.
>> It's incredibly difficult. Like I, you
know, I mean, there are uh I never want
to, you know, come across as like too
exaggerative about like my experience
cuz there's people who go through a lot
worse things like in life. But as an
investor, I'd say that was about as bad
as you know it gets. We went from being
um like top of the world, everyone
thinks we walk on water to being like
everyone thinks we're going to go to
business. I have a lot of pride in what
I do and uh you know I don't need to be
celebrated but I also uh really did not
like you know having uh our firm and our
performance dragged through the mud. Um
now granted it deserved to be you know
um treated that way cuz the performance
was very bad. it it also is a bit lonely
and that like you know there's so there
during GameStop there's probably
>> couple one or two other people who are
going through the same thing you had. I
found it helpful to go back and like
read and and listen like Ken Griffin's
interviews in 2008 and and people that I
respected. Um but it's it's lonely. It's
a matter of like testing your
resilience. First of all, we never came
close to going out of business. That
that was just nonsense for me. It was I
never um was going to quit. Uh because
you know I even though we had made some
mistakes um I deeply believe that we
were still good at what what we do um
and that we had something to offer the
world and um that um you know we could
be excellent again. I was confident in
that. But GameStop was it, you know, it
changed. It was the beginning of a
change in the market structure and in on
the retail side and uh so I knew we had
to adapt to that. I didn't know exactly
how that would play out by that point.
By 2021, 2022, I've been doing the job
for 20 years, right? I never really had
um severe adversity. Um probably because
at some point like Andreas was just like
he was just very quick to risk manage.
Um but I never really had that. And so
like I thought to myself like am I
really going to be like the guy who
quits the first time like you know uh
you know there there's a severe bump in
the road. I think the analogies that
like people gave was like you know one
day at a time like Bill Aman was like
look every day try to do something that
like makes things a little bit better.
Um cuz it's not like uh something that
uh when you have that kind of a draw
down. nothing I do even if I hit the
ball out of the park for like three
months like investors would be like he's
just volatile and and crazy and you know
um if I slowly and methodically did it
some people would just give up because
they'd say um you know this was just too
crazy like we don't believe in him so
it's impossible to disprove the negative
narrative in the short term takes a lot
of time years um and so acknowledging
that like this was not going to be
something that you changed overnight.
Um, you know, people's perception of you
as investor, people's perception of D1
as an attractive place to invest
capital. That was not going to change
overnight. no matter what I did. It was
um really like looking inwardly at the
team, making sure that uh we were all on
the same page, that we were, you know,
what we were trying to achieve and that
uh and that no matter how many people
outside might doubt us, like we were
going to do it, uh or at least we were
going to try very very hard. Was there a
specific one moment in the whole
experience that most stands out in your
memory as particularly salient whether
it was on the difficult side like you
know emotionally difficult or on the
resilience side like a you know a
decision that you were going to forge
ahead any does any one moment stand out?
The moment that stands out is um I mean
there are different moments that like
you know emotionally just kind of like
hit you in different ways like news
articles and friends calling you saying
are you going out of business or yeah a
lot of that and obviously like those
things are uh you know were painful and
something I had never had to deal with
before. I've never tried to be a public
figure uh and all of a sudden it became
um you know very public. I think the the
the most important like moment was we do
semiannual investor dinners with our
LPs. That's our primary form of
communication. We write letters
periodically, but we we do these
semianual dinners where over a period of
four nights we meet with all of our LPs
and
>> four straight dinners.
>> Yeah. It was June of 22, beginning of
June of 22. And um we were our the peak
of our draw down trough of our draw down
was uh at the end of May of 2022. And
these dinners were scheduled for like
June 3rd of 2022, right? And uh Jeremy,
the president of our firm, he said to
me, he said like, "We can't do these
dinners. Like this is going to be a
blood bath." Um
and um to me it was like really clear. I
said, "No, like this is we have to do
these dinners and uh this is the most
important time, you know, to go out
there and speak to our investors." You
know, the message was that we were going
to do things differently. Not in that
the stock selection, all of that was
going to be the same, but the portfolio
construction was going to be done in a
way that um was much less uh riskprone.
And um the analogy I gave was like we're
going to hit singles and doubles. It
might take us longer to get back to the
high water mark because singles and
doubles are not fireworks. But um we
feel like what we've gone through in
2122 tough enough that like e e even if
like the right positive MPV thing would
be to just like keep taking a ton of
risk and obviously usually the best time
to take a ton of risk is when you've
lost a lot of money
emotionally I would not be able to go
through this like again. So we just said
look we're going to run the business
differently. We very much understand if
this is like not what you signed up for
here. Um although I think at that point
people were like not like yeah I really
signed up for like them to take on more
risk. They were [laughter] kind of like
this like I think most of them were like
happy to hear it even if they didn't
believe in it. You know we really went
about managing the firm differently. And
so that was a pretty pivotal moment just
looking in the eyes of all the investors
and like you know feeling like you know
pretty horrible in every way. Um, but
there is something invigorating about
um, a turnaround and uh, you know, when
you're going through something like
GameStop and like there's the world
collapsing and there's nothing you can
do, it's like uh, okay. Like that's a
very uh, um, uncomfortable position when
you actually even if things are really
bad when you have a plan and you believe
in that plan um, it changes the
perspective entirely. Uh, and I really
did believe in the plan and I believed
in the team. And so all of a sudden I
felt like, okay, everybody else may
doubt us, but I believe it. And we are
now uh the start of a mission to um
dramatically improve our returns,
improve our firm, and uh earn back our
reputation as being um great investors.
>> Assuming some did, what do you think of
the people that redeemed from D1 during
that time? Yeah, I don't I don't harbor
any ill will. I mean, look, I think that
uh you know, the act of redeeming is
like to some extent we deserved it,
right? I mean, obviously I appreciate it
much more when people stayed. Uh I
always start out these dinners, even the
worst time. I say like ask me anything,
>> criticize me like it is my job to
deliver for you. If I don't do it, like
>> you know, it's on me. ultimately uh
think that uh when you screw up in
business um capital follows returns and
uh when you deliver poor returns,
capital will leave. We had a lot of
great investors that stuck through it
and I I deeply appreciate that more than
I resent people redeeming. It's pretty
asymmetric.
>> Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. RAMP does the exact
opposite. RAMP understands that no one
wants to spend hours filing expense
reports, reviewing expense reports, and
checking for policy violations. So, they
built their tools to give that time
back, using AI to automate 85% of
expense reviews with 99% accuracy. And
since Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no
wonder that Shopify runs on RAM, Stripe
runs on RAM, and my business does too.
To see what happens when you eliminate
the busy work, check out
ramp.com/invest.
OpenAI, Cursor, Enthropic, Perplexity,
and Verscell all have something in
common. They all use work OS. And here's
why. To achieve enterprise adoption at
scale, you have to deliver on core
capabilities like SSO, SCIM, SKIM,
Arbback, and audit logs. That's where
Work OS comes in. Instead of spending
months building these missionritical
capabilities yourself, you can just use
Work OS APIs to gain all of them on day
zero. That's why so many of the top AI
teams you hear about already run on work
OS. Work OS is the fastest way to become
enterprise ready and stay focused on
what matters most, your product. Visit
works.com to get started. Every investor
should know about Rogo because Rogo
Aai's platform is not just another
generic chatbot. Instead, it was
designed to support how Wall Street
bankers and investors actually work.
From sourcing, diligence, and modeling
to turning analysis into deliverables.
For me, three key things differentiate
Robo. First, it connects directly to
your systems, so it can work with your
actual data. Second, it understands your
workflows. how work really happens
across a deal or an investment. And
third, it runs endtoend and produces
real outputs the way the best people do.
Auditable spreadsheets, investment
memos, diligence materials, and slide
decks that match your standards. This
all comes from the fact that RO is built
by finance professionals for finance
professionals. And it's already being
adopted by some of the most demanding
institutions in the world. To learn
more, visit rogo.ai/invest.
As your business grows, Vant scales with
you, automating compliance and giving
you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vant.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
and scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com to see
what they can unlock for your firm. Can
you do great investing in your
experience, you know, meeting others
without having like a pretty um narrow
band of excitability versus despondency?
>> For better or worse, I've always from
the first day I got the job had a lot of
confidence what I was doing. I never
like stepped in and said like I'm just
better than everyone else. I'm going to
be like the most important head. You
know, that was never it. But I always
like when it came down to looking at a
company and making a decision, I felt,
you know, I felt confident in it. And
when I felt confident in the analysis, I
um I generally am pretty balanced. Uh
is it possible for somebody to have a
very volatile personality um but uh
train themselves to um deal with the ups
and downs of markets? I think the answer
is yes. Um I think there are some hedge
fun managers that have been like, you
know, are truly, you know,
generationally great. And you hear the
stories of early on they were just like
throwing things at people on the trading
floor and yelling and like you know and
ultimately they ended up being great. Um
but you have to be able to like uh not
let that emotion influence your trading.
>> Yeah. If you think about the the future
of the world given the crazy changes in
technology, we haven't talked about
SpaceX yet. That's a whole different
dimension of like an incredible
technology curve that's going on. That's
a huge position for you. You mentioned
earlier the importance of being
optimistic. Where are you the most
optimistic and and where are where what
what parts of the world and its
progression gives you the most pause or
you know things you have your eye on to
be if not worried about you know keep
your eye on.
>> I'm most optimistic in economic growth.
It has to be the case that if you
believe in scaling laws and you believe
in AI that economic growth will be very
powerful. I mean this is the ultimate
productivity tool and what productivity
does is allows you to grow while having
disinflation which is like nirvana for
markets. Um so I'm very bullish on that.
Uh and then there's implications that
you know flow from that which you know
are more macro which is something we
don't do but like that can cure
deficits. you know, that can um do a lot
of great things like economic growth
does a lot of great things for everybody
from hedge fund managers and CEOs to uh
you know people who are in lower level
jobs. It just if a country is not
growing, it's hard to have a better
standard of living. That's my more
optimistic take. The part of me is more
uncertain is that um I think that you
know we as humanity I I just think we've
never encountered something like we're
about to encounter. And so
with that kind of profound change like
we're going from the smartest uh animals
on the planet. We were never the fastest
or the strongest just were smarter than
other animals. um we're no longer going
to be the most intelligent uh beings on
the planet.
>> And so what are the implications of
that? Um I'm not really sure. Uh I think
that um there's a lot of negative
externalities in that like I don't think
humans, as much as um people like
Daario, who I respect a lot, might say
like, "Well, we're just going to give
everybody a check and like everybody
just kind of live off universal basic
income." I I just don't think humans are
wired to just collect a check and like,
you know, go around and like, you know,
play sports all day. Like, humans are
wired to um create relationships, to uh
create value, to work, to coordinate
with other humans and achieving things.
And I just don't think you're going to
have a great society if it's just a
bunch of people living off of checks
that come from the government as a
result of this massive economic boom.
>> One of the most interesting stories
you've told me before was this time when
you made I think similarly sized
investments in Rivian and SpaceX at the
same time. Can you tell that story? Both
big big bets. Obviously SpaceX is you
got this huge position now. I loved that
story of like this style of big bet
private market investing and exciting
technologies and then the way things can
go and if you could bring us back to
that those moments of decisions those
are huge checks that you wrote into
those companies um I would love to hear
that story. The thesis was that EVs were
going to um dominate the auto market. Um
and that EVs were an entirely different
kind of automobile like in that they
were software. Uh and it was the
equivalent of like the iPhone versus uh
you know Motorola and Nokia. The same
way Motorola and Nokia were not able to
move into smartphones um cuz that was
like hardware and not software. There
would be few companies that would be
able to do this successfully.
Ultimately,
autos are a bad business. Could be
software autos, hardware autos. It It's
a bad business and it's a really tough
business to scale. Uh, and very capital
intensive. The manufacturing didn't go
as smoothly as it could have. The cost
of delays in manufacturing when you're
ramping up and burning a lot of cash are
quite significant. Um, the technology I
think was always good and not getting up
the manufacturing curve very quickly
meant you didn't get to scale fast
enough and I really believe that scale
in EVs is going to be important which is
why Tesla's kind of one of the reasons
why Tesla's one you know the IPO it was
great. It looked like a great
investment. Um,
but ultimately I don't I don't know what
our ultimate return was on Rivian but it
wasn't what we planned for when we made
the investment. the the bad ones tend to
like be more obvious faster. Um the
great private tech investments I think
are um sometimes slower to prove how
great they are
>> because like you have these amazing
founders who are just you know
constantly making decisions which take
the business in one direction or another
and ultimately the compounding of those
decisions takes time but leads to great
outcomes. SpaceX was pretty obvious to
me that the launch business at a minimum
was going to be a very good business.
What they had achieved I thought was
just like from an engineering
perspective like insane. Um so to me if
I could buy a company that had achieved
the most amazing engineering fee I'd
ever seen at some multiple of you know
um revenue with very little cash burn at
that point. Like I didn't know what was
going to come. I just knew that the skew
was very good. Uh cuz if they if they
achieve that then like who knows what
they could do in the future.
>> What do you think about that business
today? Like so much has changed since
you first invested. What's your updated
you know prognosis for it or thoughts
about it?
>> The initial prognosis was just always
that like you know they were going to be
a lowcost provider of launch. Um I think
the uh success of Starship and we're not
I wouldn't say like we're fully there
but I think we're pretty much goddamn
thing.
>> Yeah. They caught Yeah, you caught a
skyscraper with chopsticks. It's pretty
good, you know, the proof full
reusability and scale like, yeah, okay,
there's more to come. Starship is a game
changer, which, you know, we knew about
fairly early on, but didn't know if it
would work. What that means very simply
is that the cost of launching everything
goes down dramatically. And the
engineering that they've done with the
satellites to harness solar power um and
be able to deliver really high speed
bandwidth has surprised me to the
upside. There's a lot of software that
goes into that too just given these
networks of satellites are all
communicating. The ramification of that
I think is that the telecom market uh
globally is
now the TAM
>> whereas before it was like okay like you
live in you know whatever and like you
know you don't have cable to your homes
it's like you get this Starlink thing
and like there there's a boats and
there's planes and there's people living
in the lower I think that the cost
they've come so far down the cost curve
I think that um in a relatively short
amount of like like months, few years,
uh they are going to be dramatically
cheaper than any other form of
delivering broadband.
>> You just said how much you love shorting
stocks. What is it about it that you
like? And because you just don't meet
that many people that are focused on
this or really that good at this
anymore.
>> My wife begs me all the time to stop
shorting stocks. Anytime she she looks
at me and she's like like uhoh. Like
this is like a short like it's a bad
business. And so you have to be
intellectually stimulated by it. And
most people in the market are just not
fundamentally based period. And even if
they are fundamentally based, they're
not interested in shorting or they
pretend like they're shorting and they
kind of short indices or whatever. Um,
very few people are doing it. There are
tons of people investing in things that
are just based on stories like because
of social media and because of Robin
Hood and and so there's just endless
amounts of shorts if you have duration
and if you take a fundamental view.
>> Why do you think markets are less
efficient now?
>> I think it's just the um the people
transacting in the market uh or the
nature of the institutions transacting
in the market. So if you go back 10 20
years ago um mutual funds uh long short
hedge funds you know they were a big
part of the market uh now it is uh a lot
of passives a lot of retail investors
the people who are making investment
decisions that are not based upon
long-term considerations of intrinsic
value uh quants um you know even uh
multi-manager long short funds uh you
know while they are focused on
fundamentals. They are uh by necessity.
They are short-term oriented. The
majority of the time uh the moves you
see in the short term are um exaggerate
the true change in intrinsic value of
the company which makes for a less
efficient market.
>> One of the things that interests me a
lot about you is I'll use the word like
loyalty. So, uh Jeremy's been your
partner. He's your one of your best
friends from growing up. Uh the guy runs
your family office, your director of
research. lots of your key partners
you've known a really long time and are
good friends of yours. I think you met
your wife in college. Um I did too. So
I'm always that always perks me up when
I hear that that example. Can you say a
little bit about the role of like how
you feel about loyalty? I know these
people the best like you know and so
I've just dealt with them through so
many different things in life and I have
a lot of confidence in you know their
confidence. So to me um there's a lot of
people that I love in life that uh for
different reasons and have are wonderful
people and you know would be loyal but
they have to be really competent to the
job. This is a very like intense job. So
uh the bar is extremely high and the
people that I've hired that are friends
of mine forever um you know uh I am just
confident cleared that bar by a lot. But
when you are able to find people that
you know for a long time and uh liked
you before you had any money or any
signs that you'd ever have any money,
you know, that is a different kind of
relationship. Like for me at this point
like I don't like most people I meet
like I don't know like do they nice to
me because you know they think I can do
something for them. you know there are a
group of people in my life that have
always been there uh and that you know I
you know they will be close close close
close to me for the rest of my life
>> and like to the extent I can work with
those people great now you know but as I
said they have to be excellent
>> one of the things that you do is for
your portfolio host this like group chat
that's just full of your thinking on
what's going on in markets and one of
the things that struck me the most about
this is just how prolific you are in it
like you're just thinking and writing
about this at all hours like all
the time clearly like this is the thing
that you just love and are passionate
about. What has been the impact of that
like constantly communicating with the
people that you care about about
markets? I asked the question because I
just want to encourage give examples to
encourage other people to do the same
because I think it can be so powerful.
Look, when you're investing in a company
privately, there is obviously a
financial aspect to it that's the
driver, but there's also a relationship,
you know, part of it like in that like
you are signing up to um hopefully help
that help that person grow their
business. um you know be with them
through ups and downs and um when you're
doing the initial investment you spend a
lot of time together you know but then
it's very easy for uh for me to um go
months without communicating with the
CEO on the private side if nothing's
happening I don't like that like I like
to be uh if we have something that we
can offer people and they you know they
can just opt in they can ether read the
stuff I write or not read the stuff I
write it is a way to broadcast
communicate with people um that I want
to be in touch with and I want to know
us better as a firm, know me better as a
person, know us better as a firm, I find
that like now uh even if I haven't
spoken to a CEO in like 3 months and I
call them, it's almost like they feel
like they talk to me every day, right?
It's the same way like when you meet
someone on Zoom during co you don't
really you never met that person in
person. I know that being a founder is
lonely like you are kind of like going
through all kinds of issues and so being
around other founders almost universally
the feedback I get is that they founders
like to be around other founders because
there's they're the only people that can
sympathize and understand everything
that they go through and so by having a
bunch of them together in a chat it's
helpful for to us uh from a business
perspective but I think it's also just
group therapy would be too strong of a
word but I think it's like nice for them
to you know know that these other people
are part of this community that they're
in and if they want to reach out to
these people they can and they hear
these people's perspective and some of
these people are worldleading experts in
areas like AI that are going to be
impactful to companies that um you know
are not experts in AI. So just getting
that getting that input I think is
really helpful and you know we have a
network of a lot of companies a lot of
industries being able to share the
insights not just my insights on markets
but having companies share insights with
each other uh and seeing like you know
how the world is impacting companies is
I think you know useful.
>> Do you care whether or not D1 has
enterprise value as a business? Is that
something you think about? It's
something I I've started to think about,
you know, more recently. Um, I think the
answer is no. Look, money to me is a
scorecard. Um, and I want to have the
best score. It is a, you know, really
great positive externality of being a
good investor. Um, but, um, and maybe I
will just be so intellectually
interested by the idea of being a CEO
that I want that go from being 10% of my
job to 30 to 40% of my job. and that's
how you would create enterprise value.
Um, I'm just not there right now and I
want to uh deliver amazing returns. I
think that'll be very, you know, that'll
be financially, you know, more than
compensatory. And so like
maybe one day, but um I don't I don't
think hedge funds are a good business.
Our business like is horrible. It's like
it's amazing cash flows. It cash flows
really well. It has no terminal value. I
told this to my companies I invest in.
I'm like, you have no cash flows and
tons of terminal value. I have tons of
cash flows, no terminal value. So, like,
you know, we're good together. Like, you
know, we can we can kind of arbitrage
that. I think there's other businesses
within asset management that have value.
I definitely do not ever aspire to
having
>> hundreds of employees or something like
that. So, and that's kind of what you
need to do to have enterprise value.
>> Why do you care so much about the scorec
card? Like, where does the competitive
drive come from? this is what I've
devoted my life to, right? And so
anything you devote your life to, you
want to be great at um or at least
having an impact that is tangible and
measurable. I could be a family office
right now and there's plenty of, you
know, positive um things about being a
family office. The drawback is like
you're not in the arena. I'm very
collaborative with other investors. It's
not like I'm sharp elbowed, but being
out there like being able to prove that
we can be great. not just me like our
firm can be great uh is invigorating and
I think I'd be kind of bored if I was
just like investing my own money. And
going back to some of the history, I
want to start with something I've never
heard you talk about publicly, which is
the early writing you did in Value
Investors Club and specifically the
Orthodontics of America shortcase that
you wrote about. I'd love to just hear
the origin story of how you found Vic,
why you started doing it. I'm very
interested in this idea of how much can
come if you do some great posting online
which is a very early version of this.
So maybe just tell us the story of Vic
and and that early passion for stocks.
>> It was 2002. I was working at a private
equity group within Bear Sterns. I
always had an interest in stocks but I
didn't have like the tool set to analyze
stocks until uh I got there and I kind
of deeply understood accounting and
finance and so I started just looking at
stocks of my own. The only way to really
get exposure to investment ideas written
up by hedge fund managers was or
investment managers was this site called
value investors club. I applied, you had
to send an idea. Uh I applied and like
every week you'd have like I don't know
tens of ideas posted by people uh
anonymously and um you could read them
and like I would just consume
everything. So, it was like reading
about merger or like long, you know,
long ideas, short ideas. Every week they
paid $5,000
>> to the best idea.
>> And um
>> yeah, I uh just got inspired by all the
stuff I was reading and decided to try
to find some of my own ideas. Did a few
uh that were probably, you know, not
particularly successful. Some were, some
weren't. they were like really deep
value like kind of like trying to buy
cigar butts uh you know trying to buy a
dollar for 50 cents. After maybe 6 12
months uh I had a portfolio of things
I'd written up on value investors club
and I decided I wanted to go work at a
hedge fund and the first thing hedge
funds ask you to do is talk about
investment idea and so I had all these
investment ideas. One of the hedge funds
I went to interview at was a spin-off of
SACE uh that did healthcare. I had no
particular interest in healthcare, but
it was just where I got an interview. Uh
back then hedge funds weren't as big of
a thing. And they said to me, uh we want
you to do a case study, you know, for
the interview. And um the company is
called uh Orthodontic Centers of
America. For me, this was like not like
a task. It was like something I was
really excited to do. Uh cuz I had never
had my work shown given to somebody who
was a professional. I went home and uh I
spent like I don't know maybe like hours
and hours like going through uh the
financial filings and trying to build a
model
>> uh with it. And um I was pretty good at
accounting. It kind of was like a puzzle
that just made sense. I really tried to
get like deep into the financial
statements and like nothing reconciled.
Like nothing made sense. Um, and I
couldn't figure out what was going on.
Um, and I kept going through it and
going through it. It hit me that um,
what they were doing was um, kind of the
simplest form of accounting fraud, which
is just capitalizing expenses that
should have been expensed uh, in in a
big way. Uh, there are other things too,
but like that was the most egregious. I
was able to
effectively prove that without you know
obviously you know it wasn't
uh incontrovertible proof but it was
pretty close uh just by building up all
the unit economics as they said they
were comparing them to the unit level
economics that you could actually uh
decipher by going through their
financial statements and it was clear I
did a write up that was about
>> I don't know six pages long
>> and uh before I went back to to, you
know, the uh the follow-up interview
where I presented my case study.
>> I was like, you know, I think I'm on to
something here. Let me post it online
first
>> uh and I'll get some feedback. I wasn't
allowed to trade stocks cuz I was
working at investment bank. Uh so I
wasn't short the stock. I wasn't allowed
in the stock. D Investors Club is done
anonymously with a tag name. Um so I
posted online within I don't know a few
hours uh the stock started to go down.
Um and um I was like that's cool. Like
people are noticing. There's a couple
comments online. I you know the market
closed a few hours later whatever you
know um I'm watching online there's some
more posts being like this is really
interesting. Has anyone double checked
these numbers? There's people like
commenting. Next day stocks stock starts
to crater. Stock's down like 20 30%. I
started getting calls from people um
working at mutual funds who own the
stock because even though it was
anonymous online I had told friends of
mine hedge funds I'm like you should
look at this stock and short it I think
it's a fraud and they had told other
people and so I started getting calls at
Bear Sterns from like people at Tro
Price and Fidelity being like what's
going on and I was like you know I
wasn't supposed to be you're working in
investment bank last thing you're trying
to do is supposed to like posting about
companies that are fraud like I didn't
know even know if they were a client I
wasn't, you know, so uh the stock just
got it got habedded. I went back into
the uh interview and um you know to
present the case study at this point
like they were just like what did you
do?
>> And I was like and I was like look I was
like you told me to look at this. I
thought it was a fraud. They're like did
you tell anyone that like we we told you
to do this?
>> I was like no no. They're like you you
sure? And I'm like yeah yeah yeah.
Nobody knows. Nobody nobody knows. And
they're like, "Okay." And they're like,
"We basically thought you were going to
come back and tell us if they were going
to miss earnings." Like, I didn't want
to do healthcare, so I didn't work
there, but I now had this, you know, um,
write up that could go around to, you
know, different hedge funds. And most of
them already knew about it cuz they
would short it. They were short it um
after the write up. And that's how I got
my job.
>> So, you go, you end up at Viking. You're
there for a long time. You're the CIO.
You've got an [clears throat] incredible
track record while you're there. If you
think about the moment that you decided
to go start D1, what what was it like?
Bring us back to that moment to go hang
your own shingle and build this thing.
>> I started out as a banks analyst. So, uh
that's what I did for the first couple
years. I still had a value bent. I think
most investors who love investing uh
start out with a deep value bent because
it's, you know, if you want to read um
about great investors historically, most
of them were deep value investors. Ben
Graham, you know, Buffett. I was working
for somebody named Tom Purcell, who's a
[clears throat]
>> amazing investor. I realized that Tom
was an awesome mentor, but I realized
that, you know, Tom was uh, you know,
very well equipped to generate returns
and financial services for Viking. And
so, if I wanted to grow in my career, I
had to move into other areas. And so um
gradually I
took on um other sectors like starting
with healthcare uh industrials TMT and
um you know the nature of those
companies was different than banks that
was a learning process. there's just
like years of covering different
companies and different industries and
uh you know the deeper you got into like
what created value in TMT was different
than what might create value in
industrials or healthcare. So it was
like to me if you love investing my time
at Viking was amazing because I was able
to get exposure to every industry almost
by 2016
I was managing uh just over half of
Vikings capital somewhere 55 something
percent of Vikings capital and I'd
started out you know in 2002 uh being an
analyst with no portfolio and so kind of
I'd gone from no portfolio to portfolio
to eventually CIO to you
managing more than half the firm's
capital, which was an abnormal
percentage historically for Viking.
Viking is usually more diversified, but
yeah, it was pretty clear to me that uh
from a business perspective, it was not
in uh Andreas's best interest to have
one person manage more than half the
capital. I don't think that would be
even good for LPs. Um, and so I kind of
recognized that, um, I had pretty much
achieved what I could achieve at Viking.
Um, you know, over time I'd be probably
managing a smaller percentage almost
regardless of how well I did. Um, I've
always had a mindset of like I want to,
um, grow. I want to get better. I want
to achieve new things. And, uh, I kind
of felt like there wasn't that much more
for me to achieve at Viking. And I was
40. Um I was I started a fund relatively
late in life.
>> Um and I kind of recognized that at some
point you just wouldn't have the energy
to go, you know, do something like
starting a fund is, you know, obviously
it's a big endeavor. Uh and so I felt
like I had the energy and so everything
kind of came together.
>> What interests you about art? Like it's
something that obviously you care a lot
about. You've devoted some time to
understanding. What What is it that
attracts you? I've always had more of a
leaning towards humanities than STEM uh
which is like you know unusual and uh
certainly tech and somewhat finance.
That is why I perhaps look at my job is
more art than science. The science is
very simple. DCF I could learn how to do
25 years ago and hasn't changed. The
humanity side interests me and uh you
know art is certainly one aspect of
that. Um, and I am particularly
interested in aesthetics. Like I like
design, I like architecture, I like art.
Um, to me like it's just beauty and like
you know there's beauty like you go to
you go to uh the beach and like watch
the wave that's beauty. Like there's
beauty in the world and like art is one
example of beauty. There's usually a
story behind it. Uh, and there's people
behind art. Art is important because it
is created by people. And I think the
bullcase in art would be like
>> as everything else is like automated and
you know in um infinite supply because
it's being created by uh AI you know art
created by people reflects emotion and
you know often times like what's
happening in the moment just in the
world when they're making that piece of
art or what's happening in their life.
If you apply the same aesthetic idea,
the beautiful idea, what is the most
beautiful business you've ever seen or
just like the best
business you've ever seen?
>> I think that the best businesses are
usually
lowcost producers of something that's
like very durable. And I think people
underestimate like the ability to
provide a given product or service
sustainably at low cost and where there
is a a a positive feedback loop of like
low cost drives more volume which drives
low cost. And I think that like I could
say like a bunch of businesses which are
really great like Moody's or S&P those
are great businesses when you're wrong
but uh you know something like where the
cost advantage is so substantial uh and
so impenetrable
um like SpaceX with you know launch or
Costco with um you know groceries. The
only way to win in most businesses is to
provide a great product at a low cost.
And so like the businesses that do that
at scale and build a mode around it are
amazing. Amazon's like e-commerce
business is amazing. There's so many
amazing businesses um very few
monopolies and when they are a monopoly
usually what happens is they tend to get
lazy and uh and you know uh the returns
aren't as good.
>> What parts of the world do you think are
underappreciated right now? like when I
look at your top 10 holdings actually
like didn't recognize a number of the
companies. Lots of them are not in the
US. Um they're international. Where's
your eye right now that you think the
world is not paying enough attention to?
>> It's hard to say Europe in that like
Europe is economically stagnated. So I'm
not sure anyone should pay attention to
it other than if you are a pure
fundamental stock picker, it's an easier
market. Um I think there's really
interesting things happening in Asia uh
just as um globally as politics change
uh like you saw what happened in Japan
and for the first time Japan's probably
going to become a military power at some
point in the future again and you know
that has all kinds of implications. Um I
think there's a lot uh going on within
defense. I think there's obviously AI uh
geographically
the Europe is always the most
inefficient. Uh I think Japan and Korea
are probably um pretty inefficient as
well. A lot of retail investors, some
really great companies that happen to be
like Japan and Korea were not well
positioned for the last 20 years because
it was just like digital companies. But
when it comes to like actually hard
assets and good engineering, they
Germany, Korea, and Japan uh have a lot
of companies that um have excellent
physical assets in engineering.
>> Is there anything else that we haven't
talked about today that you're that you
have on your mind or you're especially
passionate about things you're thinking
about in the world? The thing that
troubles me the most frankly is I think
we are on a um collision course with
China over semiconductors.
And I'm not sure I think there are ways
to get out of that. Um but uh you know
none of them are easy and um to the
extent that we don't figure that out um
I think you know we're going to have
something you know akin to the Great
Depression. It's very straightforward in
that like um Taiwan produces 90
something percent of uh you know the
most advanced semiconductors and uh
everything we use is semiconductors. So
I I would say like it's almost as if if
you went back 50 years if there's only
one country that produced oil,
>> right? Um and oil was that important. We
went to war over oil even though you
could get it in all over the world. like
uh Taiwan is uh produces um all the
leading or vast majority of leading
semiconductors and that is what powers
everything and that supply chain is
fragile like it's not like it's easy to
replicate it's uh easy to uh destroy. If
that supply chain were to get uh screwed
up or uh disintermediated,
we would have like a incredibly bad
economy on the order of like depression
type economy. Um and um you know, I
think that probably a lot of people in
government understand this. I've heard
Scott Besson talk about it. I think
people understand it, but there are some
scenarios that are um okay for the for
the global economy. Um, but there is no
scenario I can think of where
everybody's happy.
>> Um, China's happy, Taiwan's happy, and
the US is happy. Um, somebody's going to
be unhappy. Um, either because the
economy collapses or because their
sovereignty is handed over.
>> What do you hope happens that we build
fabs here? What I hope happens is that
we replicate the supply chain uh over
time in the US and we work something out
with China where they see uh a path to
integrating Taiwan. If we um
replicate the supply chain, um the risk
is that we're probably less likely to
defend Taiwan, in which case China will
attack Taiwan anyway, right? Bad for
Taiwan, fine for the US. you know, China
uh achieves its objectives. Um I would
like to see the world avoid uh
depression and that's going to require
like I think some understanding of we
need 10 to 20 years to replicate this
supply chain. Over that period of time,
China will not screw up the world
economy by um being very aggressive with
Taiwan. And then eventually
um there's a path where China feels
comfortable that they will be able to
reintegrate with Taiwan. Um otherwise
like you're kind of usually when
dictators say they say something and
they say it like religiously, you should
believe them. Like when when Putin, you
know, talks about like the glory days of
the Soviet Union, like he like he may
not have the capabilities always, but
like as soon as he did, he he he he
acted on it. and dictators usually do.
And so like every time she makes a
speech that's of any, you know,
importance in China, he emphasizes
Taiwan. And so we can pretend like this
is like, you know, going to happen in
some time that's not relevant, but it's
so
important that uh an AI just raises the
stakes so much that it's it would affect
everybody. Um,
>> Zach told me to ask you what you've
learned or what you like about the Real
Dictators podcast.
>> Oh. Um,
>> basically just this. [laughter]
>> I like history. I like history and like
these like, you know, sometimes just
like
>> listening what's happened in history and
like how many horrible leaders there are
and how like Charlie Munger say like,
you know, tell me where I I'm going to
die so I never go there. It's like
learning, you know, learning about like
>> bad things and, you know, so you don't
go there to me is it's interesting
whether it's like
communism or you know, fascism. It's
just like all of these things are still
possible and relevant in modern day
>> and we see seeds of them
>> and we see seeds of them like it's like
and so like just understanding how
things have played out in the past and
it tends to repeat itself like communism
starts but like communism without
dictatorship doesn't work because
eventually people realize it it's not
good and so then they they they want to
change and the only way you know it
doesn't change is if you have a dictator
who's really benefiting from from all
this And so like that to me is like
interesting just cuz the world a lot
more things have gone wrong in the world
than right. In our in our lifetime
things have gone right technologically
geopolitically but over history more
things have gone wrong.
>> Good leadership can be as impactful or
more than bad leadership. You've worked
with a lot of invested in a lot of great
leaders. I'm wondering specifically
around CEOs but broadly about
leadership. What have you decided are
the mo like what are you looking for in
a leader?
>> Real passion. like real passion, uh like
a strong competitive streak,
>> uh like an desire to win, deeply engaged
in the business, um like somebody who
like knows the details like when you
talk to them. Um and uh somebody who
people want to work for. Um and that
could be because they like the person
personally or it could be because they
don't necessarily love the person, you
know, dayto-day. like Elon Musk I'm sure
in the factory is not like you know all
giggles
>> but like people are like I'm going to
learn more by working with this person
always says like the business is more
important than leader cuz eventually
like I I kind of disagree with that I
think if you look over 30 years sure but
over any med period of time like
businesses are just people and if you
have amazing people they make great
decisions and bring great people and you
know my investing time frame is like
more like 10 5 to 10 years at max And I
think people are more important in that
time frame, especially in technology
businesses. I
>> I think it's come through today that you
are clearly one of the most passionate
stock pickers, stock people, markets
people that's active today. And uh
mostly I like these things just to be
inspirational to to other people that
might want to do the same thing. So it's
been so much fun to do it with you. I
ask everyone the same traditional
closing question. What is the kindest
thing that anyone's ever done for you?
with my wife right now. I was a pretty
bad boyfriend in college and that like I
was busy doing other things and you know
I just like I was not very attentive. I
was not like, you know, somebody that
like you'd want to like necessarily
marry. And I kind of um and we broke up
and I remember like I sat down with her
and I said like, you know, we went to
get a drink and just to like catch up as
friends and I said I got a job at Bear
Sterns and I just remember like she just
started crying cuz it wasn't like the
easiest thing for I got I was fine but
it wasn't like it wasn't like I was
Goldman Sachs was like you know knocking
down my door to get me to go. I I didn't
really work for the first three years of
college. So, and you know just she just
started like crying like tears of joy
and I was like wow like this person who
I
really didn't properly appreciate like
how you know uh how much they cared for
me and how devoted they were and like
how much they were rooting for me and
like that was like you know to me like
it wasn't an act that was kind it was
just a gesture uh uh that I was like I
was kind of taken back by and
immediately I walked out and I was like
I'm going to marry [snorts] that girl
because like you know like and I'm going
to be better going I'm going to be a
better boyfriend/husband
going forward.
>> I love that story. I haven't heard like
a specific moment quite like that one
and all the 500 times I've asked this
question. So an awesome place to close.
[music] Thanks for your time.
>> Awesome. Thank you.
>> Most software companies try to maximize
[music] your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. RAMP understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back using
AI to automate 85% of expense reviews
with 99% accuracy. And since Ramp saves
companies 5%, it's no wonder that
Shopify runs on RAM, Stripe runs on RAM,
and my business does, too. To see what
happens when you eliminate the busy
work, check out ramp.com/invest.
As your business scales up, everything
gets more complex, especially your
compliance and security needs. With so
many tools offering band-aids and
patches, it's unfortunately far too easy
for something to slip through the
cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a powerful
tool designed to simplify and automate
your security work and deliver a single
source of truth for compliance and risk.
There's a reason that Ramp, Cursor, and
Snowflake all use Vanta. It frees them
to focus on building amazing
differentiated products, knowing that
compliance and security are under
control. Learn more at vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tax
stack is for asset managers. And
seemingly every new tool and data source
makes the problem even worse, adding
more complexity, more headcount, and
more risk. Ridgeline offers a better way
forward. One unified platform that
automates away all that complexity
across portfolio accounting,
reconciliation, reporting, trading,
compliance, and more, all at scale.
Ridgeline is revolutionizing investment
management, helping ambitious firms
scale faster, operate smarter, and stay
ahead of the curve. See what Ridgeline
can unlock for your firm. Schedule a
demo at ridgelineapps.com.
Every investor should know about Rogo
because Rogoai's platform is not just
another generic chatbot. Instead, it was
designed to support how Wall Street
bankers and investors actually work.
From sourcing, diligence, and modeling
to turning analysis into deliverables.
For me, three key things differentiate
Rogo. First, it connects directly to
your systems, so it can work with your
actual data. Second, it understands your
workflows, how work really happens
across a deal or an investment. And
third, it runs end to end and produces
real outputs. the way the best people
do. Auditable spreadsheets, investment
memos, diligence materials, and slide
decks that match your standards. This
all comes from the fact that Rogo is
built by finance professionals for
finance professionals. And it's already
being adopted by some of the most
demanding institutions in the world. To
learn more, visit rogo.ai/invest.
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Verscell all have something in
common. They all use works. And here's
why. To achieve enterprise adoption at
scale, you have to deliver on core
capabilities like SSO, skim, arbback,
and audit logs. That's where work OS
comes in. Instead of spending months
building these mission critical
capabilities yourself, you can just use
work OS APIs to gain all of them on day
zero. That's why so many of the top AI
teams you hear about already run on work
OS. Work OS is the fastest way to become
enterprise ready and stay focused on
what matters most, your product. Visit
works.com to get started.